hey everyone and welcome to hello
interviews uh today I have the pleasure
of interviewing Christian my good friend
Christian's an em at meta currently and
he's supporting a team around AI infra
Christian's also a race car driver a
bread maker in a fountain of briet so
super excited to have him on the channel
today uh Christian it's it's great to
have you on tonight it's good to be here
it's been a while since we've chatted it
has well I've got a bunch of questions
for you that I hope will res with with
our audience so I'll Dive Right In I
guess to get started and so people can
get to know you a little bit how did you
get to meta I always look at people who
like get a degree in arts and then end
up project managers and then they go do
something else with hardware and stuff
with like admiration because I don't
know how they get there for me it's
pretty simple computer science degree
Computer Engineering software
engineering and then uh eventually very
slowly got to meta uh I spent a very
long time before meta um on a few teams
at my soft I guess yeah the long answer
is I spent a long amount of time on a
team where I was doing a lot of fun
stuff was doing something that's kind of
a personal passion and it was great fun
uh working with great people but then
eventually hit kind of a ceiling there
and then I tried a couple other teams
and nothing really clicked and then I
was like okay I guess I got to start
looking elsewhere and um meta was
expanding in our Seattle area so yeah it
was a little bit late but better late
than never super interesting and you've
had a a long career so I you you
mentioned this a very nice way of saying
you're old generally speaking we talk
about a lot of people who have moved
between jobs really quickly I don't know
whether this is like a zero interest
phenomenon or um this is actually just
the tech industry at large but for you
it seems to have not been the case
what's your take on this especially as a
hiring manager is job hopping dead or
are people going to continue moving
between companies to try to get
promotions and raises is there value to
that anymore there there is I definitely
have peers and people that I know that
maybe not every two years but every two
to three years would um would move on to
something new it's generally PTY I guess
to an extent like I don't think there
are any extremes that are really good so
every year team team switch or even
company switch even worse is probably
not great you're probably not learning
as much as you can from the environment
takes you forever to even just get up to
speed with everybody else around you so
for you to learn something that's
substantial probably would take more
than a year for most people at the other
end of the spectrum like I definitely
spend more time than I should have on
some teams that have been on just
because I let inera kind of take over
jobs have high switching costs right so
it's always easier just to stay where
you are and for a lot of people if you
know there isn't a whole lot of pain uh
with the current job or if they're not
sacrificing too much of whatever it is
they're looking for they tend to just
kind of stay you speak to a lot of
people that say oh you know I should
really leave this job I'm not happy here
but then they just don't really do
anything about it um which is not
irrational we all just have a threshold
of pain Beyond which we get motivated to
start you know putting in the effort
yeah you kind of zoomed in on that
moment where you feel like a person
ought to switch teams or switch
companies I feel like it's um there's
different thresholds for different
people obviously but there's also
different thresholds for where you are
in life uh um and whether you've done it
before or not like it's one of those
things just like everything it gets
better like switching jobs actually you
know you have to go through interview
loops and stuff and with more practice
that whole thing becomes easier so like
maybe your first job switch is probably
the hardest and then the second was a
little bit easier and then the third one
is a little bit easier I definitely
observe this with my own career on teams
like I don't switch companies very often
but I switch teams inside and the second
team switch was definitely easier than
the first team switch and the third is
is is a lot easier because um you're not
really as worried about it you've kind
of proved to yourself that you can
thrive in different environments um you
don't have that you know sick to your
stomach kind of worry about how's it
going to be am I going to like it you
learn a little bit more about what you
like and what you don't like and you
kind of keep fine-tuning and optimizing
so it it definitely is one of those
things that get better with practice uh
this is a a slight pivot but it's
connected in at least in my mind for a
lot of our audience they are Junior
Engineers they might be just getting
into the industry and I think everyone's
confidence at this stage in Tech is kind
of shaken it's like are we undergoing a
revolution kind of like the leites
observed where software engineering is
irrelevant and we're all going to be out
of a job shortly I'd love to understand
from your perspective how you see the
role ofu kind of changing in big
companies and what's your outlook
especially for you know the new grad
population who's really struggling in
the job market right now
those are super interesting topics and
I'm I'm also kind of guessing as much as
anybody here but I have some some
thoughts I don't think yeah is changing
the what makes it a software engineer
much I think it's taking away some of
the monotony right like nobody enjoyed
spending 20 minutes searching on stack
Overflow for how to do this dumb thing
and this weird OS right and now we get
the answer a little bit quicker okay
great I don't think that you can take
you know average person off the street
and give them Chad gbt and have them
become even a halfway productive
software engineer um a lot of these like
it's it's kind like you have to know
what to look for you have to know how to
ask questions to get the right answer
right and you have to know when you get
the wrong answer that you can fix it so
it's a I think all of the stuff is like
it's it's a useful tool if it is going
to replace software Engineers I don't
think it's going to happen in our
lifetimes maybe 200 years I don't know
what's going to happen in 200 years but
in in the of 10 to 20 I don't really
don't think it changes anything other
than just makes us all a little bit more
productive you know less time chasing
stupid bugs I think it does take
away this um if you look at you know
dimensions in which Engineers are
competitive or not competitive it takes
away kind of pure coding ability maybe a
little bit out of the equation it takes
away this like this notion that you can
just crank out a lot of lines of code
and that's how you succeed as a software
engineer that becomes that was never
really true to begin with I think it
becomes even less true because chbt can
outcode you in terms of pure output but
it on the other side like okay what
becomes the important part now and the
important parts now I mean it's this
notion of understanding the problem and
what set of solutions to deploy to a
problem and what set of Technologies to
use for it and how to build the red
abstractions for things software
engineering and any kind of engineering
is just navigating a series of
trade-offs it's always been the thing
that differentiates in my mind the more
senior Engineers than the junior
Engineers is one thing is the ability to
navigate the millions of tradeoffs as
you go and I don't know that Shad jpt
can do this like you have to really like
it kind of follows what you tell it like
if you tell it to implement something a
certain way it'll just do it um in terms
of waiting trade-offs and understanding
user intent and understanding your if
you're building a product who the user
for your product is or what's most
important for this piece of infra that's
still going to be more substantial than
just coding it out and then you're going
to get some help in coding it out I
think it's just it's kind of crazy for
anyone to be in this business to be if
you ever worked with a PM right like
you've spent hours and hours in meetings
and documents and reviewing documents
just talking about what the requirements
are and what it is that we should build
and when you're navigating those
conversations you're taking into account
the whole complex Matrix of what's
desired what's ideal what's possible and
we're coming up with something that kind
of um satisfies all these constraints I
don't think that AI can do this right
now U so I think the skills are the
software Engineers are not dispensable
they are going to be just even more
productive and in the short term when
you become more productive you tend to
actually be even better compensated
right um if a company with 100 software
Engineers can make even more Revenue
because they're a lot more productive it
usually will follow that they can be
paid more so in the short term I think
it's actually to be I like it makes it a
little bit more lucrative I think um if
you can use nobody cares how the code
came about obviously don't you know
follow your company policy and don't put
your company's code and in other
people's servers and all that good stuff
but if you have tools use them right you
don't you don't get extra reward for
writing you know Artisan handcrafted
code versus GPT code nobody's gonna pay
more for that fortunate because I really
do enjoy the hand
it's like so pure and so performant have
you ever seen the the C++ obfuscation
competitions where beautiful yeah that's
handcrafted code and it's garbage you
can't really use it's just it's just fun
like the fun I hope AI doesn't take the
out of toic there was this recent post I
think it was I Mis proun his name Steve
Yi YJ he used to be at Amazon he had his
very famous blog post a long time ago
and he was kind of contemplating what
what add meant and he had a lot of
thoughts so I didn't digest them all to
be honest but one thing that he said
really stuck with me and he said AI is
going to make it uniquely difficult to
be a junior software engineer because I
think as you and I were kind of growing
up as software Engineers we did the
drudgery on behalf of the senior
Engineers who needed to you know work at
a higher level and it was this nice
relationship where we would take on
drudgery and it's like an apprenticeship
and learn along the way and they would
get to execute at a higher level if AI
is doing that middle ground it gives
less of this runway for people to learn
these Core Concepts it's always been the
case that it's difficult to teach some
of the most important skills in software
learning about estimation how to deal
with failures what architectures not to
use I'm kind of curious from your
perspective like have you had any
Reflections on how you learn to design
good systems and become a good engineer
and then I'm kind of curious like has
any of that changed do you feel like you
would offer you your own self some
different advice if you were uh in the
middle of your career versus where you
are now that's a really good question I
think to the point of being a junior
engineer is more difficult I don't know
it feels um I I see the point I see the
angle to this that someone could look at
and say well you know as a junior
software engineer all you did was crank
out code and now CH gbt is better than
you so what's the point but I also think
that this is a very similar argument I'm
old enough to have learned you know um
what was it Pascal and then like C++ and
then I no I did production C the
production Pascal but I I studied in
college and then C++ and then we saw the
C wave and the and Java coming in and it
was exactly it was a very similar line
of reasoning use is like oh if you don't
learn you know how to manage your own
memory by your hand and if you just go
straight into C or Java you're never
going to be a good software engineer
like you're never going to learn
anything you you didn't go through that
drudgery of of manual memory management
and it obviously turned out to be not
true um
unfortunately definitely teaches you
little
extra multi- gigabytes today yes so I
think I think this this to me feels like
a similar argument that if you like if
you don't go through the the the manual
labor and drudgery of writing things one
character at a time uh and you copy
paste the buch stuff maybe you're not
learning as much there's some element to
it like you definitely see extremes of
people who get introduced to programming
via Python and then just like get
completely flued by the notion of
sorting anything because like sort is
just you just it's you just call sort
like you don't what what do you mean
it's to them it's a primitive function
um but I don't think that's it it
actually in the long term hinders
anything um I think a lot of the
drudgery was not necessary and the
little of it that you know taught you
something can probably be substituted
for with something else when you get to
that to that pretty deep problem or you
know if you copy pasted a bu of code and
found a bug in it and had spent six
hours debugging it you're probably going
to learn uh the same amount as you would
have done just righting it from scratch
so I don't I don't buy that one um I I
would zoom in there the like the the
garbage collection manual memory
management example is a good one where
we devised a new abstraction and it it's
kind of unnecessary you don't really
have to think about it anymore which is
super convenient
but I think one that a lot of people are
struggling with at least uh in our
audience is like system design they will
learn how to design systems and when I
reflect back on how I learned how to
design systems I think most of it I cut
my teeth at Expedia and Amazon mostly
just to play Garbage ideas into
production and having to deal with the
failures for many months and sitting on
Hall and I do wonder how often people
are going to get an opportunity to do
that I maybe the the more concrete
question for you and we we'll zoom in a
little bit on system design because I
think it's interesting how do you learn
that stuff that seems like you need a
lot of experience like a lot of people
for instance who interview at meta for
the very first time they're having a
system design interview and for some of
them they say I've never dealt with a
web scale system before how could I
possibly pass this interview can you
learn this stuff do you think it's
learnable it's learnable I think the
problem and this applies to all kind of
learning is it it turns out that like
struggle is a necessary part of learning
or at least it accelerates and um allows
you to um be able to easily recall what
you've learned when you struggle through
it this has been studied I was actually
reading a book about learning which is
kind of fascinating but like struggling
to remember something helps you remember
it better next time it's kind of true of
all learning I think some element of
this is the main thing about system
design is that you know you'll never
forget that time that you built
something in a really dumb way and it
blew up in your face when it went to
production and you stayed up all night
or whatever it was and you got
embarrassed in front of your peers to
fix it you can't substitute for that
this is just kind of like you only need
to do this once and you learn so much
from it you can augment it though like
the the the thing about learning is like
there's a bunch of different ways and
they have different I don't know if you
can call it throughput like but
definitely absorption rates right like
you learn from actual experience that's
a super high absorption r rate you you
learn so much you read a book or a Blog
you learn a little bit less per unit
time spent um but you're still learning
something it's not zero you don't absorb
nothing in it and I think what would
help is you know as you're reading about
system design for me it tells me to read
like I Tried reading the books the books
never really taught me much because they
tend to be kind of almost contextless or
at least there's not enough
context I like reading about the
struggles um a lot of the engineering
blogs are really good at that where they
kind of go over like here's what's our
problem and here's how it blow up in our
face and then is how we fixed it and
then there was the downside of that so
they walk you through that kind of the
journey and you feel a little bit of the
pain that they felt and that helps it
stick a little bit better to me that's
better if you
do I think there's a connection here to
like typical human storytelling right
you need a protagonist and you need a
struggle or some conflict and a lot of
things for many people don't stick until
they can hear the story and I think
those are really useful memory devices
and they help you to integrate into your
mental model so I I love the idea of
specifically looking for those
post-mortems of people's mistakes yeah
that struggle turns out to be necessary
and the story helps it stick uh you can
you can probably extract more out of it
if you you know again from that book
that I was reading about learning uh
quizzes are good like I think this is
part of why you retain so little I I
watch a lot of YouTube videos that are
kind of educational like I don't know if
you've watched three blue one brown yeah
entertainment they describe amazing
stuff really really amazing stuff super
deep and connections that like I really
love how he lays bar some connections
that I never thought existed uh and the
visualization of certain math problems
but I can't remember I I can't name
three videos that I watched uh even
though I watched like 30 uh the ones
that stick with me are the ones that
like something that I used later
recalled later something like that so
adding a quiz element or adding some
some element where you know you take
something that you read about or you
watch the video about and then you try
it or doing like a I think this is where
M interviews are are really awesome
because they give you that quiz and it
turns out that again like just having a
quiz just having being tested on some
body of knowledge actually helps you
retain it
longer kind of
scientific someone just that three three
brown one blue they they made the same
comment that they watch a lot of videos
in content for what it's worth and they
feel to retain and I think what they had
done is they actually go ask chat GPT to
create a quiz afterward so that way they
can you know start to integrate that
knowledge and I thought wow you have a
lot more energy than I often
times that's very smart yeah I I'll send
you a recommendation to that book L
because that was kind of a mind opener
on um on how we learn and why you know
you can read a lot of books and not
gather a lot out of them and then you
can read this one thing that kind of
sticks with you uh yeah it's it it it's
just how humans learn like we're we're
almost wir to filter out a lot of stuff
and stuff that you know we' put a mental
marker in our stuff that was a little
bit painful in in in some in one way or
another including you know being quizzed
and struggling to remember the struggle
is necessary yeah no I love it it's
super cool reflection
and I like the emphasis on learning I'm
I'm going to shift gears a little bit to
talk about kind of the application I
think you know there's a bunch of people
who are currently getting jobs at Big
tech companies sometimes for the first
time and the real question for them is
how can I be effective I think I I
talked with a number of people and they
are sitting in the uh their seats and
going I am worried that I'm going to get
pissed they're overcome with their
impostor syndrome they just nailed the
interview but they're not sure whether
they're going to make it and the reality
is they are you know some people
certainly do lose their CHS but they're
far in between but I'm curious from your
perspective you've certainly hired a
number of people you've mentored people
through those early phases what does it
take to be effective in a big company
and how ought Engineers to think about
setting themselves up in those first
three to six
months that's a great question I I guess
I totally empathize with imposter
syndrome we all felt it we all feel it
occasionally um it's normal it's kind of
healthy almost because it gets you
trying at least so you can kind of take
something good out of it I think I guess
when you're settling in right like a lot
of people just focus on the tech uh and
I've seen a bunch of people focus on
learning the wrong way um I see a lot of
people like oh reading they just said
there and read documents all day and
again like it's it's kind of like
watching YouTube educational videos it's
great fun it's good to read code it's
it's necessary you need to do some
amount of that but you're not going to
retain like 20% of what you read
especially when you go down to like
these deep like you know's 20 Page
documents and the history of the product
and this note from when we launched and
this diagram about the
architecture very little of that is
going to stick because it's just it has
nowhere to Anchor itself into I I recom
like I usually advise people to like you
have to learn by doing right you you
have to start doing stuff it's fine to
spend a couple of days you know setting
yourself up and setting your environment
and doing some code reviews or just
looking at code a lot of people will
review the code but not leave comments
because I don't know if what I'm saying
is dumb or not so just read silently
review the code and then just keep the
comments for yourself I see a lot of
people do that that's totally fine but
you can't do that for three months like
you're just wasting your time after a
certain small amount of that after that
you really have to dig in start small do
something ship something it's I think
you kind of probably had a similar
strategy
like from a manager point of view like
what I'm looking to do for someone
joining the team is give them confidence
right I know they're feeling imp poster
syndrome I know they're not quite sure
what's going on best thing for their
confidence is to get them to ship
something it doesn't really matter what
it is could be like one character change
but you go through the motions you you
know submit your different r view you
you you land it and now you're like okay
now I I I've done something productive I
can I can do this and then you can get
bigger and bigger so start small get
your hands dirty
uh I usually recommend people go a
little bit deeper before they go broader
because again it's just easier to go
over on a I mean you join any modern
company these days and you can spend the
rest of your life reading documents and
stuff that has been written in the last
year or two there's you know 60,000
people who work here they wrote a lot of
stuff um so do stuff go a little bit
deeper before you go broad just so you
don't succumb to this notion of I'm just
going to learn everything there is about
this area that I'm in uh and then you
can you know you can after you go a
little bit deep you can kind of back up
and then you can have some context to
understand the rest of the world um does
this change when you think about like a
staff or a more senior engineer versus
you know someone joining for a junior it
does it does a bit although I mean
you've been probably in the same place I
joined teams as manager and like the
first thing I've done is try to land a
piece of code not because my job is
going to have anything to do with the
code but I want to get
a uh Landing the code I was mostly I
think I still have some abandoned gifts
from n months ago chpt man you should
try
[Music]
it um for a senior engineer and I think
this was the second element that I was
going to speak to for every engineer
really is you kind of have to understand
the environment and and the culture and
the
expectations how to communicate
effectively uh I've been in two
different tech companies and they were
vastly different and like how can you be
effective in getting something done um
and the tactics that you would use in
one would completely backfire in the
other uh and the worst thing is you know
especially if you have prior experience
is to come in with this preconceived
notion of of how I'm going to get things
done and then have massively blow up in
your face I have a couple of stories for
really senior people that you know
joined a company treated it like their
last company and then it was like you
can't recover from that if you're senior
for sure you cannot recover from that
you you know you said the wrong first
impression with an organization of 100
people and that's stuff to come back
from yeah you're on you're in the
lineway so lay low a little bit on like
talk to people you know understand what
they care about um Bosworth that has a a
really good article on this cold start
algorithm is what he calls it when he
lands in a new organization or team you
know he talks to people and he asks them
about a certain set of questions to
understand what they care about what are
the you know top of Mind worries for
them what their objectives are so I
think it it it's again it's definitely
more important for someone senior and
it's harder for a senior person because
a senior person is trying to understand
the context around you know 30 or 50
people whereas if you're joining the
team as a junior the number of people
who's you know you care about is maybe
10 uh you know your manager maybe your
skip uh couple of your peers and a PM
and you're kind of you're you're Off to
the Races but the same Concepts apply
understand what care about you know
observe how communication happens and
see if you can kind of just fit in I'm
I'm usually a kind of fit in person I'm
not like a you know come in and and and
try to rebuild things from scratch kind
of person okay um and it's usually a
more effective way yeah build trust
right the trust aspect I think is is
kind of the unsung hero especially for
the more senior folks I guess you have
to operate uh on like a you know there's
you build up credit and then you use it
and if you're really good about it
you're always aware of whether you're
you know crediting your account or
you're withdrawing from your account
right um and when you start out you
don't start with a lot you get a certain
amount of credit different with
different people uh some people will
give you a lot of credit because hey you
made it here you pass the interviews you
must be amazing right uh and some people
will be very skeptical like I don't know
if you're good enough to be here uh but
yeah understand that Tech understand you
know get productive get your hands dirty
really quickly understand the
expectations and how people communicate
and uh and you're going to be pretty
much set it's much easier set than done
obviously and it does take a while I
guess the last thing is just align with
your manager on on what their
expectations are for your ramp up okay
just so you don't put yourself under
undue stress like some people you know
they really you know I I did this thing
before and I'm going to hit the ground
running and for a million good reasons
they can't hit the ground running and
nobody's actually expecting you to hit
the ground running but now you feel bad
and you really shouldn't right so I
always tell people like expect you know
at this level I expect you to take 3
months to to ramp up before you become
fully productive or at higher level I
expect you to take longer and the higher
level you are the longer it'll take you
obviously yeah you definitely you want
to make sure your leadership team is
giving you space to actually do that
necessary ramp because otherwise you're
just setting yourself up for an icor
situation where yeah it's going to come
crashing down I actually I love some of
the the things that you mentioned about
getting your hands dirty I think there's
actually a nice interplay with trust and
you know actually getting on the ground
and doing some real work one of the
things that I always loved when I was
joining a new team even as a manager is
I would jump in the UN call as soon as I
could and it was like a dual thing one
was like I'd learn a lot about the
system and the things that people didn't
want to talk about and then secondly you
know people appreciate that someone
who's willing to come in way especially
managers having managers on call is
always a little bit weird cuz some
managers just don't have those technical
expertise so it's a really great way to
earn trust to the people who really
value the the Hands-On technical work
every engineer would would salute you
for for voluntarily becoming part of the
UN call as a manager that're like what
are you serious you're doing this
managers out there that's that's you to
do it well I on this vein of trust I I
think there is kind of this interesting
uh first impression that you end up
having uh with your your manager and
your team there's actually this Dynamic
that I didn't think would become popular
but it has so at meta when I was there I
guess it was Facebook they used to have
this thing called boot camp which was
really weird you kind of got hired in
the company and then you would work with
a bunch of different teams and kind of
get to know them a little bit and then
make the decision and it was super cool
it's absolutely one of my most favorite
uh memories in in my time there and I'm
kind of sad that they've mostly gotten
rid of this they've moved toward this
model very much like what Google does
where you'll get an offer but you'll do
that team matching kind of externally so
you'll meet a bunch of hiring managers
you'll ask them questions and then
you'll make your decision and that can
be nice from some level cuz just joining
a company and not knowing what you're
going to be doing is like really kind of
odd and there was a lot of people who
said I hell no I'm not going to do that
yes but it is a new Dynamic for people
to navigate to say all right team match
how do I do this you've obviously met
with tons of people in this capacity and
wondering what advice you might have for
engineers who are going through this
team match right now with companies like
meta Google and others yeah the teams
can be probably frustrating because you
feel like you know you go through the
interviews and they're they're hard
enough and you wait and you get the
result and you finally like okay you're
you're through and then you wait again
so it's kind of like a hurry up and go
sort of thing it probably doesn't for
team match
um it's it's kind of interesting because
you're trying to figure out if the team
is right for you and the manager is
trying to figure out if you're right for
the team and I don't know how every
manager does it this is just something
that I had to make up as a as I go and I
do it based on my own don't tell you how
to do this you don't get team match
interview training or anything like that
um for me it's down to checking for the
thing like I've seen a lot of people be
successful and I've seen a lot of people
will not be as successful and I'm trying
to I'm trying to assess whether this
setup is going to be successful and for
me before the interview match before the
before the the team match interview I've
seen your resume I've seen your previous
work I've seen your interview feedback
uh I know if that you did really really
well on system design and you maybe did
okay on uh on coding but not great I
know all of that up front that's all in
the system there for me to read so I go
through that and when I decided to take
the team match it's probably because I
think you know there's a there's a good
chance here of of having something that
works and and I really think of it as a
two-way street I don't really think of
it as one way it's not it's not me
deciding to hire you I know that you are
good enough to be in the company and
that there are teams out there that are
going to be great for you like one of
the main things that I care about is
this notion of of having a good match
and for me a good match is if I'm
looking for someone who's senior then
I'm looking for someone with some
ability or experience or skill set that
matches what we do this can be teex
stack uh right now I'm hiring for C++
and C++ is specialized enough that I
kind of value have someone having
written production C++ code before it
wouldn't be the same if it was like you
know Java C all of that stuff it's all
the same that's fine but C++ is a little
bit peculiar enough and people have a
loved or hated thing with it so I kind
of look for that and honestly it doesn't
even have to be like on the technical
skill side skill set side it doesn't
have to be an exact match like there's
no way you would have done exactly the
same thing we're doing with the exact
same text T that we're doing but having
you know having some overlap is nice and
when there isn't that overlap or when
there's something that's very specific
that you don't know then I'm looking for
examples from the past where you learn
something kind of quickly right so I I
want to I want to know that you know
you've landed before on a team and you
didn't know the language and you picked
it up real quick and you ran with it how
do you learn that like what kind of
things are you asking in order to figure
out whether people stories and and then
you you check for um I mean it's it yeah
that's it's kind of the same as the
behavioral interview right like how do
you people can say anything how do you
know what they're saying is actually
real oh you look for a story and the
more detail and the more Vivid the story
is then you know the more believable it
sounds right right like it's very easy
for me to say oh yeah I learned
everything super fast it's a little bit
harder for me to say well you know
there's this one time when I joined a
team and I didn't know any C++ and you
know within six months I was super
productive that's still easy person
going to be easy to say and then the
more detail I add to the story right the
more you know it's true um so there's an
element of Storytelling there I I want
to hear a good story but for most people
it really doesn't even boil down to the
technical skill set because again I
could gather a lot of this from your
resume like I knew know from your res
whether you've been working with with
with C++ or or something else or with
coplin or whatever it is um so it comes
down to I I want to know that um you're
interested in the kind of work that we
do this is more for the senior Engineers
like Junior Engineers you know the trick
is like they're kind of you know
everybody's writing code for the most
part and a little bit of design like you
know the job the job is pretty standard
at the junior level and then the senior
level it's completely different like one
senior engineer can be doing nothing by
writing code and one senior engineer
could be doing zero code uh and there's
anything in between same with tech leads
same with managers so as you go up like
the the the difference in profile can be
big so when I'm hiring a senior engineer
I'm looking to see that you know what
you would like to spend your time doing
is what I need you to be doing right and
for me that translates like hey you know
I need someone who who's going to be
spending half of the time writing code
like yes you're a senior engineer yes
you're going to be designing stuff yes
you're going to be mentoring yes you're
going to be making big decisions but I
also want you to be want you to be hands
on the team needs you to be Hands-On and
writing code this is very easy to check
for like you know how do you spend your
time how would you like to spend your
time and if you just want to be an
architect some companies have that role
where you're an architect you're
designing stuff you're not writing any
code then that's great I just don't have
that for you um if you you know if you
want to be writing tons of code and
doing nothing else and just not
interacting with human beings at all
then maybe this also isn't for you um so
I look for the match in terms of what
you like to spend your time doing and
what the team needs you to be doing and
then I look for a match on the
motivation side uh why here why this
team it sounds a little bit cheesy but
I'm really looking for something that
tells me that you're going to be fired
up about this job right because I think
and this is again this is not just for
my benefit this is not just selfish like
you want to be happy in your job I want
you to be happy in your job because when
you're happy in your job you're the most
productive and I've been again in those
situations where I wasn't happy it
didn't match what I wanted and I wasn't
productive so I'm looking for for like
what what fires you what gets you out of
bed in the morning uh and try to
understand if I have a match for that or
not and and this is the place where
there's just a huge amount of variance
between people some people get super
excited about the problem space some
people are super Mission driven like
they just want to be doing something
that they view as super valuable or fun
or good for the world some people are
purely motivated by the tools they're
going to be using or the language like
I've I've I've met people and I have
friends like that that like they'll do
anything so long as it's a C++ like that
doesn't matter what it is like nuclear
bomb fine medical Innovation totally
fine anything uh so long as it's C++ so
I'm looking for what the person's
passion is and one they trying to get
out of it and trying to make I have
trying to make sure that I have a good
match for that that's actually kind
place because there seems like there's
the Symmetry that you know generally
speaking in from the candidate side
they're really trying to figure out
whether your team is a good fit for them
if you're saying hey a lot of the things
that I'm evaluating as a hiring manager
are really is it going to be a good fit
for you then there's not necessarily
much misalignment here you don't have to
overthink this process I think that's
the nice part yeah there isn't an I try
to get like the the I I try to get
beyond the surface answers right like
the stuff that's not helpful in this and
I hear a lot of like what are you
looking for I'm looking for growth well
aren't we all like of course you're
looking for growth like I've never heard
someone tell me like I'm just looking
stagnate here like that doesn't happen
yeah I'm just joining the Country Club
um so I'm looking to get to the real
meat of it and I advise people like okay
no this is not actually what you're
looking for and this is what you're
looking for instead and similar for
people who just want to spend their time
you know doing more design than um and
review than coding it's like you know
what that's not going to work here
you're not going to be successful you're
not going to be happy about it we're not
going to be happy about it um so yeah I
try to position it as it's it's a
win-win right if if we have a great
match here then we both should feel like
we're winning and if either one of us if
I can't get you fired up on the team and
you can't get excited about the team
then it just isn't going to work um and
it's a little bit tough
because some of the people have been in
in team match for a long time um and if
you've been in this process for I don't
know how many people you meet in a month
or two then it feels like okay I just
need to settle into anything I'll figure
it out later and I think it's probably a
bad idea to just settle um maybe it's
necessary in some cases but most cases
you don't have to settle there's just a
lot of stuff out there and it just takes
a while to get to get through all the
possible teams and it's harder from the
outside I think that was the beauty of
boot camp you got full access to all you
know internal information right yeah
whereas from the outside you don't get
to see what we're writing you don't get
to see us on workplace you don't get to
see the chats the the code so it's a
little bit harder but it's probably
worth holding out for something that you
really feel fired up about uh in most
cases some some cases you really just
need to get the hell out of wherever it
is you are that's fine yeah well it's
definitely encouraging to hear that the
hiring managers are really kind of
looking out for your best interest it
sounds like you know somebody takes a
meeting with you they're at least going
to learn a bit more about what it is
that they actually wanted and maybe even
get some good pointers if it's not the
right fit so you know those meetings I
say don't don't be afraid to be a little
bit opinionated although I would caution
there was at least one example of
someone that was too opin most people
are on the side of just being very they
don't want to really you know show their
hand because they don't want to say
anything that would upset anybody I
understand that that's you end up on the
extreme of being you know fairly generic
and I can't really get a read on what it
is that you're trying to do here um on
the other hand you don't want to have a
list of Demands right like here's my 10
demands which I I think I had one
meeting that like that that was a little
bit strange where little was like okay
number one blah blah blah number two
number three like I I literally got like
a numbered list of the
demands for the candidate and that was a
little bit too opinionated maybe um
somewhere in the middle is where you
want to end up for folks you maybe
aren't seeing why the hiring manager
ends up needing to work with you and if
you're coming in and your first thing is
to make a bunch of Demands they a not
want to actually do that so you
definitely do want to be a bit judicious
about how you approach the situation
anytime you're communicating you know
references or opinions or something like
that you don't want to come off too
strong here's here are the things that
are important to me here's what I care
about that's totally fine but like you
know it's not like I deand I demand that
you you know you should have an easy on
call and you should have you know X Y
and Z ready for me
okay super transparent appreciate that
Christian well we're at about 45 minutes
I know I told you that I wasn't going to
take up to ma year time I've got one
last question for you and I I hate to be
this guy but we are hello interview so
I'd love to get uh any advice that you
might have for folks interviewing at at
meta right now what should they be on
the lookout for do you have any tips
obviously don't share anything super
confidential no nothing I this is all
random opinions um I will say a couple
of things that maybe are lesser known
and maybe one thing from my own
interview experience I still remember my
metal Loop even though it's been a
number of years now um um one is do your
best to Ace all the interviews it can be
I used to think that it was you know
it's a pass or fail like there's no
degrees to it it's it's binary if you
get if you just get past the threshold
you're good enough and the reality is
that you know the feedback they get from
interviews is a lot has a lot more color
to it than that and there is such a
thing as you know knocking out of the
park and there is you know barely
passing and there's maybe passing with
no confidence ask people to kind of
Lally put that in their feedback so do
your best to do what you can to do the
best you can it it every interview is a
new every interviewer is different and
every interviewer is a clean slate so
enter every interview that you know
intent on acing it and doing the best
that you can don't just try to you know
I'll just barely pass because it does
make a difference uh it does make a
difference later in team match it does
make a difference in whether you know
the chances of getting offer everything
is a probability so maximize your
probabilities do the best you can on
every single interview and and I think
the other one from my own experience
like sometimes interviews go wrong for
no
reason for no fault of your own someone
makes up on the wrong side of the bed
and you know you remind them of someone
that they just had a fight with last
week and that's it the interviews is
done like we're people like that we're
trying to be as objective as we can
everybody is people make mistakes people
get off on the wrong foot it's you know
in interviews nowadays is like 45
minutes and a lot of them are remote I
would say that like if you feel like
something happened during that interview
that you know made it start off on the
wrong foot or there was just a
miscommunication barrier that you
couldn't get through to the interviewer
or somehow or every time you spoke you
know they couldn't hear you very well
tell the recruiter I actually had that
exact experience even though it was in
person one of my interviews it might
have even been the system design
actually I came out your interview I
came out of the interview and I was like
that was so awful like I didn't really
understand what he was saying and I
don't think he understood a word of what
I was saying and it was just we were
talking past each other like we just
couldn't connect I was like okay maybe I
blew it like but just completely
randomly I was like I told the recruiter
I was like hey you know recruiter was
like hey how did the interviews go I
like you know everything went great
everybody was great except this one
interview where I just I don't know
there's I couldn't communicate very well
I couldn't understand what he was saying
and he didn't really quite grasp what I
was saying and I just didn't know what
he was expecting me to do at any point
in time like when I would lead the
conversation ation they would interrupt
and then when I would let them you know
leave the conversation they were
expecting me to leave the conversation
it was something was just awkward about
the mechanics and then a couple days
later it turned out you know sure enough
the interviewer had the same impression
that like this wasn't
working and I think um I don't know how
I learned this or I don't know if they
told me eventually or something they
basically they rescheduled interview
with a different interviewer and I did
well on that one and that was great and
I got the offer and I think it was later
later maybe after receiving the offer or
something they like they told you know
that was you know that was a person
doing this interview for their first
time um
and that was very nice so they were
learning how to do the interview and if
I didn't say something I don't know if
something would have come out of it it
would have been just you know you didn't
pass the interview but because I said
something because I kind of explained
what was going on then I kind of got the
benefit of the doubt and I got another
interview um we do repeat interviews a
lot of meta I don't know what other
companies do but you do get a second
shot sometimes so something is weird
interview something is not quite
clicking you know you had AV issues or
you were sick that day whatever it is
you know explain communicate see see
what see what happens you can you'd
probably be surprised that you know once
we've invested you know five six
interviews and getting someone through
the door if there's one hold out like
it's worth it to spend another interview
do a repeat get another opinion right
get a second opinion on that so that
that happens a lot so don't don't think
it's it's not really a one-way Street
like you can obviously if you go through
all your interviews and they all go
horribly wrong like it's going to be
it's going to be a tougher sell like all
my interviewers were awful you guys are
awful like don't do that second shot
please that really wasn't work there
yeah it's not me it's you yeah
recruiters generally are are are very uh
candidate favorable they're on your side
which is literally true someone told me
this I didn't really believe it because
I'm just not that I guess I'm cynical to
too cynical to believe that I didn't
believe that the recruiter was on my
side but the recruiter is actually on
your side they're trying to get you
hired um I don't know how their
incentives are set up but they are set
up to hire you and so you know give them
information tell them what's going on
tell them about your competitive offers
all that stuff because they all use that
as as ammo to to kind of fight for you
that's kind of the nice thing about the
model we have again I don't know if
that's true of every company but it's
definitely true at meta that recruiters
are on your side they are trying their
best to get you hired and all the
information you can give them that can
help them with that is information that
they're going to use perfect well
Christian this was super practical we
covered a lot of ground from like Ai and
the the philosophy of learning all the
way through we can't working in a big
company getting ramped out to to
interviewing I'll have to hit you up and
include the the books and and blog posts
that you referenced uh down in the the
comments for for people who are are
watching along but really appreciate you
coming on Christian um thank thank you
so much for your time and uh you know
looking forward to sending you many more
candidates hopefully people who are are
working alongside you very shortly I'm
looking forward to it I'm still hiring
and it's been great talking to you as
always yeah so it thanks fishing